MY NEXT GUEST TONIGHT IS THE
TOP DEMOCRAT IN THE UNITED
STATES SENATE.
YOU KNOW HIM AS "CHUCK" FROM
"CHUCK & NANCY."
( LAUGHTER )
PLEASE WELCOME SENATOR CHUCK
SCHUMER!
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
( BAND PLAYING )
>> Stephen: PRETTY GOOD STUFF,
HUH?
>> OH, THEY'RE GREAT.
>> Stephen: THEY ARE.
HAPPY MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
DAY TO YOU, SENATOR.
>> TO YOU, TO EVERYBODY.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: I'M SO GLAD YOU'RE
HERE TONIGHT.
THIS BOOK IS KIZMET AS MY PEOPLE
WOULD SAY.
HOW'S YOUR FRIEND DONALD TRUMP?
>> GETTING WORSE EVERY DAY.
>> Stephen: THE BUZZ IS YOU
GUYS CAN TALK A LANGUAGE THAT HE
CAN UNDERSTAND, THAT HE LIKES.
YOU ACTUALLY SAID OFF MIC ON
C-SPAN, HE LIKES ME ANYWAY, IT'S
GOING TO WORK OUT.
>> ONE OF MY WRONG PREDICTIONS.
>> Stephen: THIS WAS A LONG
TIME AGO.
>> THIS WAS A WHILE AGO.
HE WOULD START OUT BY FLATTERING
ME.
THAT DIDN'T WORK, SO HE TRIED TO
CALL ME NAMES.
NEITHER WORKS.
WE STICK BY OUR VALUES.
THEY'RE VERY FAR AWAY FROM WHERE
DONALD TRUMP'S VALUES ARE AND
FRANKLY FROM WHERE MOST OF
AMERICA'S VALUES ARE AND WE'RE
STANDING STRONG AND WE'RE THE
CHECK ON DONALD TRUMP.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: WE KNOW ABOUT WHAT
HISTORIANS WILL CALL S-HOLE-GATE
FROM LAST THURSDAY.
( LAUGHTER )
A LITTLE WHILE AGO, THIS
AFTERNOON, HE TWEETED SENATOR
DICKEY DURBIN TOTALLY
MISREPRESENTED WHAT I SAID AT
THE DACA MEETING.
DO YOU HAVE ANY DOUBTS THAT
SENATOR DURBIN IS TELLING THE
TRUTH WHEN HE SAYS THAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID REPEATEDLY WHY DO
WE NEED PEOPLE FROM --
>> I HAVE NO DOUBT.
FIRST, DONALD TRUMP HAS LIED SO
MANY TIMES IT'S HARD TO BELIEVE
HIM ON ANYTHING LET ALONE THIS,
BUT SECOND, I'VE KNOWN DICK
DURBIN FOR 35 YEARS.
HE WAS MY ROOMMATE FOR 20 YEARS.
WE SHARED A LITTLE ROW HOUSE.
HE'S ONE OF THE MOST HONORABLE
PEOPLE I'VE EVER MET.
I NEVER HAVE KNOWN HIM TO LIE.
I TOTALLY BELIEVE DICK DURBIN
AND I THINK MOST AMERICANS DO,
TOO.
( APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: MANY PEOPLE LOOK
AT THIS THE AND WHAT THE
PRESIDENT HAS SAID AND JUST
SAID, OKAY, WELL, DONALD TRUMP
IS A RACIST.
DO YOU THINK THAT DONALD TRUMP
IS A RACIST?
>> LOOK, HIS COMMENTS OVER AND
OVER AND OVER AGAIN CAN BE
DESCRIBED AS NOTHING BUT RACIST
AND OBNOXIOUS.
HE SAYS HE'S NOT A RACIST.
WELL --
>> Stephen: HE'S THE LEAST
RACIST PERSON --
>> THE LEAST RACIST PERSON YOU
WOULD EVER SPEAK TO.
>> Stephen: OF ALL TIME.
O I HAVE A CHALLENGE FOR
DONALD TRUMP, OKAY, ACTIONS
SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
IF YOU WANT TO JUST BEGIN THE
LONG ROAD BACK TO PROVING YOU'RE
NOT RACIST OR BIGOTED, SUPPORT
THE BIPARTISAN COMPROMISE THREE
DEMOCRATS AND THREE REPUBLICANS
PUT ON THE FLOOR, EVERYONE GAVE,
AND GET THE DREAMERS SAFETY HERE
IN AMERICA.
THAT'S WHAT HE SHOULD DO.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
AND LET ME SAY THIS, STEPHEN --
THAT BILL -- DONALD TRUMP AT ONE
POINT SAID, WELL, THERE ARE
THREE AREAS OF CONTENTION.
THE THREE OF THEM, THE SIX OF
THEM, TRIED TO GO SOMEWHAT IN
HIS DIRECTION ON THOSE THREE
AREAS IN RETURN FOR DREAMERS.
IF THIS BILL DOESN'T BECOME LAW,
THERE WILL ONLY BE ONE THING
STANDING IN HIS WAY AND THAT'S
DONALD TRUMP AND HIS
INTRANSIGENCE.
IF IT WAS PUT ON THE FLOOR IN
THE HOUSE OR THE SENATE IT WOULD
GET A MAJORITY VOTE IN EITHER
ONE.
>> Stephen: DO YOU THINK THOSE
ARE HIS INTRANSIGENCE OR DO YOU
THINK HE'S JUST BEING PRESSURED
BY THE FARTHEST RIGHT ON
IMMIGRATION POLICY IN HIS OWN
PARTY?
>> IF YOU'RE GOING TO LISTEN TO
THE FARTHEST RIGHT, WE WILL NOT
HAVE AN IMMIGRATION PARTY.
YOU CAN'T GET A SMALL GROUP ON
THE EXTREME GOVERN, IT'S A
FORMULA FOR FAILURE.
>> Stephen: WHAT'S HE LIKE TO
NEGOTIATE WITH?
>> OH!
( LAUGHTER )
>> Stephen: BECAUSE YOU HAVE
BEEN NEGOTIATING WITH HIM FOR
MONTHS.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: YOU'VE KNOWN HIM
FROM BACK IN NEW YORK.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: HE'S SUPPOSED TO
BE AN EXPERT NEGOTIATE.
>> OH --
>> Stephen: ART OF THE DEAL,
MY FRIEND.
DO YOU SEE THE ART IN HIS
DEALMAKING?
>> THE ART OF FAILURE IN ABOUT
EVERY DEAL HE MAKES.
HE HAS TWO WAYS OF NEGOTIATING.
ONE, HE'LL SHAKE YOUR HAND AND
THE NEXT DAY TOTALLY BACK OFF.
NANCY PELOSI AT THE WHITE HOUSE
AND I HAD AN AGREEMENT WITH HIM
ON DREAMERS FOR BORDER SECURITY.
HE AGREED.
THE NEXT DAY GOT PRESSURE FROM
THE HARD RIGHT AND BACKED OFF.
THAT'S WHAT HE DOES OVER AND
OVER AGAIN.
THE OTHER WAY IS SAYING "HERE'S
HOW I WANT IT, YOU DO IT MY WAY
OR ELSE."
HE WASN'T A GOOD NEGOTIATE IN
REAL ESTATE DEALS IN NEW YORK
AND ONE OF THE MANY REASONS HIS
ADMINISTRATION HAS BEEN A
FAILURE SO FAR IS HE'S A POOR
NEGOTIATOR BECAUSE HE USES ONLY
ONE OF THOSE TWO TACTICS.
>> Stephen: THE WORD IS WHEN
YOU AND NANCY PELOSI MET HIM IS
YOU PLAYED ON HIS LOVE OF
NEW YORK AND GOT ON HIS GOOD
SIDE.
WE ACTUALLY MANAGED TO GET A
CAMERA INTO THAT MEETING WITH
OUR FRIENDS FROM SHOWTIME FROM
OUR SHOW COMING UP IN TWO WEEKS,
WE HAVE A CLIP OF OUR CAMERAS
CATCHING THE THREE OF YOU
NEGOTIATING.
JIM?
>> JUST KNOW YOU CAN'T SOFTEN ME
UP WITH A BUNCH OF NEW YORK
TALK.
>> OF COURSE NOT, MR. PRESIDENT.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO TALK ABOUT --
NEW YORK.
>> WHAT ABOUT IT?
I WAS TAKING THE STATEN
ISLAND FERRY THE OTHER DAY.
>> EMPIRE STATE BUILDING.
HUDSON RIVER.
KATZ'S DELI.
TRAIN TRACK.
CENTRAL PARK.
FIVE!
>> Stephen: ACCURATE?
ON THE MONEY.
LEFT OUT ONE THING, BROOKLYN!
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: I TOTALLY GET IT.
NOW, LET ME ASK YOU, THERE'S A
SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT SUBJECT BUT
HAS TO DO WITH THE CHANGING
SENATE.
DO YOU FEEL LIKE THE DEMOCRATS
WILL TAKE THE SENATE?
>> YES.
>> Stephen: ARE YOU CONFIDENT
THEY WILL TAKE IT BACK?
>> WE'RE WORKING REAL HARD AT IT
AND I THINK THE ODDS ARE GREATER
THAN HALF WE'LL TAKE BACK THE
SENATE, ABSOLUTELY.
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: AND THE HOUSE --
I THINK THE HOUSE ODDS ARE
VERY GOOD, TOO.
>> Stephen: MM-HMM.
IN PART, WE HAVE A REAL
FRIEND IN TAKING BACK THE HOUSE
AND SENATE, DONALD TRUMP.
>> Stephen: RIGHT, BUT DO YOU
THINK PEOPLE WILL THEN BE VOTING
FOR DEMOCRATS OR AGAINST DONALD
TRUMP?
AND I MEAN THIS SINCERELY --
>> YES, YOU DO.
>> Stephen: THIS YEAR WHAT
DOES THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY STAND
FOR?
>> SO, LOOK, WE HAVE TO BE A
STRONG CHECK AGAINST TRUMP BUT
THAT'S NOT SUFFICIENT.
WE HAVE TO SHOW AVERAGE FOLKS
WE'RE ON THEIR SIDE WHILE TRUMP
IS ON THE SIDE OF THE WEALTHY
AND POWERFUL INTERESTS.
IF WE DO BOTH, WE'LL TAKE BACK
THE HOUSE AND THE SENATE.
>> Stephen: WELL, YOU LOST ONE
OF THE STARS OF THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY THIS YEAR, ONE OF THE
BIGGEST FUNDRAISERS OF THE
DEMOCRATS IN AL FRANKEN.
>> YES.
>> Stephen: LOOKING BACK ON
HOW THAT WAS HANDLED, THAT
FRANKEN WAS ASKED TO RESIGN
AGAINST HIS WILL, AS YOU CAN
TELL FROM THE SPEECH HE GAVE,
BEFORE THE ETHICS INVESTIGATION
WAS OVER.
DO YOU FEEL THAT WAS THE RIGHT
THING TO DO?
>> WELL, LOOK, I AM A STRONG
BELIEVER IN #METOO.
WOMEN HAVE BEEN ABUSED, TAKEN
ADVANTAGE OF IN SO MANY
DIFFERENT WAYS THAT I THINK THAT
A STRONG STAND IN THAT REGARD IS
VERY IMPORTANT.
YOU CAN LOOK AT EACH INDIVIDUAL
CASE, AS YOU SHOULD, AND PEOPLE
SHOULD GET SOME PROTECTIONS, BUT
I HAVE A GREAT DEAL OF SYMPATHY
FOR THE WOMEN WHO SAY THIS HAS
GONE ON TOO LONG AND WE HAVE TO
BE REALLY STRONG TO FIGHT IT
( CHEERS AND APPLAUSE )
>> Stephen: WELL, SENATOR
SCHUMER, THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
BEING HERE.